JAPANESE
Japanese 1, 2, 3, & 4 – (1 credit each; Levels 3, 4 are Honors courses)    Japanese Levels 1 through 4 are organized into four overarching themes in each level with a variety of related topics within each theme. Within a given theme area, the performance indicators of the communication goal are the primary focus and the performance indicators in the goal areas of culture, comparisons, connections, and communities provide broader connections in which to learn the language. The vocabulary that the students learn is directly related to the purposes and situations identified with each topic. Teachers will also select vocabulary to reflect the students’ needs and interests in each thematic topic. Vocabulary acquisition is heavily emphasized over linguistic competence at these levels, although a greater emphasis on structural accuracy to enhance communication occurs in each year of successive language study. When communicating in the foreign language, both in writing and in conversation, the quality of communication of purpose and message are stressed over grammatical accuracy. Grammar skills are important as they aid in effective communication. Standards for grammatical accuracy increase as the students’ language study progresses.

A.P. Japanese Language and Culture – The Advanced Placement (A.P.) course places high emphasis on the mastery of linguistic competencies at a very high level of proficiency. The goal of the AP Japanese course is to make students more knowledgeable and active members of a global society. Students use Japanese for meaningful communication with increasing accuracy in both spoken and written forms. The program transitions the students from the use of language as it is used in everyday real-life situations to using the language more in depth in order to expand their knowledge of Japanese communities.

The course prepares students for the A.P. Japanese Language and Culture examination. The exam is approximately three hours in length. It assesses interpretive, interpersonal, and presentational communication skills in Japanese along with knowledge of Japanese culture. The exam is computer-based. Each student works at an individual computer, which processes everything read, heard, written, or spoken by the student. That is, the student reads on the screen, listens through headphones, types using the keyboard, and speaks into a microphone. There is no paper component; although the student may use paper to take notes during the exam, the proctor will collect the notes at the end of the exam, and they will not be scored.